(upbeat music)
All right lets talk about, "bind, call and apply."
These are three functions that are used to change
the scope of what this is equal to,
inside of a function or inside of a method.
Now, I honestly don't even use these all that often.
However, the ratio of actually using it,
and interview questions is high, I would say.
Meaning that almost always if you have some sort
of like tricky interview questions they are going
to ask you a question about these.
So it's helpful to understand how they work.
And you sort of put them in your back pocket,
knowing that all three of these "Bind, call and apply,"
will change the scope of what the "this" keyword
is equal to, inside of a function
or inside of a method.
Now, lets get into it.
We're gonna go into our playground,
and create a new file, and we'll call that
"Bind, call, apply.HTML"
We get our HTML base going.
Bind call and apply.
And give ourselves a script tag.
All right, so lets start off something real easy,
we'll just create and object that has a method on it.
So say const:person is equal to an object.
Now inside of that object we'll have a name,
and that name will be "Wes Boss,"
ya have a little bit of fun put your own name in there.
And we'll say, "SayHi" as a method that is a function.
And in that we'll just console:log (Hey)
and if I wanna access the persons name,
then we simply use the (this) keyword,
(this.name)
Now I am going to save that,
and I'm gonna change this over to shorthand.
So I gotta delete the function keyword,
and delete the colon.
And that is the exact same thing.
Now lets just open that up right in our browser,
and we'll take a look at how that works.
Say person.sayHi
it will say hey Wes Boss.
Why?
Because it's probably even better
just to return from that (this) string.
that does the same thing.
All right, so why does that work?
Well sayHi is a method, and when methods are called,
the way that they get there (this) value,
is they look to the left of the dot,
and see what they are bound against.
And the sayHi method will give us,
the object that it was run against.
This is no different than,
if we were to have a class or a prototype,
or anything like this.
The (this) is always going to be equal,
to what is to the left of the dot.
Now if we were to take that sayHi method,
and put it in its own variable,
so const sayHi is equal to person.sayHi
so now we're just pointing the sayHi into
it own variable called, sayHi.
And if I were to run that again,
What are we gonna get?
Hey hey,
right.
Okay that's weird, so if I were to console.log
Cryptokey, get outta here.
If I were to console.log (this)
and run it this way,
we see this is equal to the person object.
But if I run just the SayHi function,
(this) is equal to the window.
Why?
Because nothing that the method was bound to
on the left hand side.
And that's really important,
Because JavaScripts' this keyword always is defined
by where the function is being called,
and not where the function is being defined.
So even though we defined the sayhi function,
inside of an object,
it's not bound to it unless we call it as a method
of an object.
So what happens is that we can use
the "bind" keyword to change where the (this) keyword
is defined.
So we can use the dot ".bind" keyword
to actually change what the "this" keyword
is equal to or what it's bound too.
So what we'll do is,
we'll go here and we'll say ".bind"
and lets just bind it back to the original person.
And what this says is,
create a function called "sayHi" that when called
its (this) keyword will be equal to,
whatever I pass in right here.
It'll be equal to, this object here.
Now when I go ahead and re-run "sayHi"
It now works as Wes Boss.
Why?
Because I've changed what (this) will be equal to,
by binding it to another object.
Now why would that be useful?
Well, sometimes you might want to use a method of an object,
with some other information.
So lets say I have a Jenna object here,
and I set that to curly brackets.
And we say name is equal to Jenna,
now how would I use this method for another object?
It's not like (this.name) is passed in
as an argument.
It's not passed in as an argument,
it's passed in as a (this)
that by the way is the difference between,
object oriented and functional programming.
This is object oriented.
if it were to take a argument,
that would be much more of a functional approach to it.
So if we're in this sort of use case here,
what we can do, is we can bind it,
to Jenna.
And then when I run it,
it says "Hey Jenna"
why?
Because when we bind a function,
so this is a function, bind is a method that lives on
all functions.
And it says change the (this) keyword to be equal to,
in this case just a different object.
Again I could just manually pass it a name of Harry.
It says, "Hey Harry"
okay lets look at another example,
Document.querySelector,
Document.querySelectorAll,
those are hard to type.
So lets show a querySelector example,
And if I wanted to make a short form selector,
like dollar, dollar, dollar for querySelectorAll
you might think you could do this.
Const $ is equal to document.querySelector and that's it.
All right, and if I were to type in Dollar here,
gives me querySelector,
if I type in document.querySelector,
it gives me the exact same thing.
In fact, is document.querySelector the same thing
as dollar sign?
It is.
It is the exact same function,
that runs.
By the way, sometimes you see this (native code),
what does that mean?
Well, this is a function that has been implemented,
by the browser.
So we're not able to see how it works
under the hood,
because it's implemented in whatever language
the browser is written in.
So, if I were to try and run this,
like select, let me put something on the page.
Let's go here, lets skip a paragraph,
"Hey" and a button, says, "click me."
If I wanted to select the first paragraph on the page,
you'd think I could just do $(p)...
(whoop you have to be able to type)
you'd think I'd be able to just say $(p),
now it says "Uncaught TypeError: Illegal Invocation.
Cops are on their way!
We're doing some illegally here.
Now what's happening?
Well somewhere under the hood in "Document.querySelector,"
it needs to know where to look,
for the thing that your selecting.
And the reason behind that is because
you can also do things like,
if I had like a "wrapper"
and inside of that I have a paragraph that says,
"Hey I'm in a wrapper."
and sometimes what you wanna do is,
you wanna say, const wrapper is equal to
document.querySelector then you wanna grab the "wrapper"
and then inside of the "wrapper" you wanna say,
const p is equal to "wrapper.querySelector"
you wanna look for paragraphs inside of that,
and console.log(p)
Lets see if that works.
Good.
So we got it.
Now so query.selector is a function,
and it needs to know what should I look inside of,
for the selector.
And the reason it knows where to scope it to,
either globally which is the document,
or in a subset of the dom,
which in our case is the "wrapper,"
then it knows to look inside the "wrapper,"
because it will say this,
and this will be equal to either the document,
or the "wrapper."
Now if we go ahead and just like take this $
out of the equation,
it doesn't work.
Because I can't just do something like this (p)
why?
Because there's nothing to the left of the dot.
I've takin away the object which the method
was called against.
And it is not bound to anything.
So the way that we fix that,
Is we say, "Document.querySelector.bind"
and then you have to manually pass it,
reference to the thing you want this to be equal to.
So we'll call it "document."
Now lets put a little comment there,
by calling bind against querySelector,
we say when the $ function
is run,
use 'document' as the 'this' value.
Lets see if it works.
Now it works just great.
Because it's been bound to the document.
You notice that this doesn't call the function,
this just returns a new function,
which you can then store in a variable.
Same thing as I could say,
'const lookFor' and we'll make that 'querySelectorAll'
and I could go here and just say,
'LookFor(paragraph)
and now I got a NodeList as return.
So by calling bind I tell,
I'm sure your sick of me saying it by now but,
using bind will change the context of what 'this'
is equal to,
inside of a function or inside of a method.
Another thing that "bind" is useful for,
is that you can use it to prep a function,
that has arguments,
sort of pre-loaded or batteries included.
So what you can do here is,
lets say, "const bill" is equal to an object,
and we'll say the total is equal to 1000.
And calculate is equal to a function,
that takes in the (taxRate)
and we are gonna return,
"this.total" plus,
"this.total" times (taxRate)
that got passed in.
Okay.
Good, good, good.
Now we go here and just say,
"const total" is equal to Bill.calculate,
and we'll calculate a 13% total.
Console.log(total)
Lets see if this works,
before we get going.
Good.
1130.
Now if I wanted to use this calculate function,
and store it in an external variable.
I could say "const.calc" is equal to
"bill.calculate"
and if I were to try to console.log (calc)
and pass it 0.13,
you'll see we get NaN.
Why?
Because if we console.log (this)
inside of this method,
(this) Is going to be equal to the window.
You see the first time around it's equal to
our "bill" object.
And the second time around it's equal to our Window.
That's because this calc,
is not bound to anything.
So we could just bind it
to the original bill.
And that would work.
Or you could pass it your own bill.
So we say total 500,
and that works as well.
One kinda neat thing about "Bind,"
is that you can also preload it
with some arguments that need to be called.
I like to think of this as
the check-in online of functions.
Meaning that when you bind something,
you can pass it additional arguments,
that line up with the arguments of the function or method.
So in our case, if I wanna pass the TaxRate,
I can pass it right here 0.06.
We live in oil heavy province of Canada,
and we have very low taxRate here.
And then I can go ahead and not pass it here.
And watch what happens.
It still works!
Why?
Well the additional arguments to "bind"
the first one will always be the "this" object.
And then the additional ones,
will line up with the arguments that get passed.
It's only off by one.
So the taxRate would be the second argument.
And if this had multiple more arguments,
maybe like a tipRate.
And then that would be 0.15,
you could pass it like that.
So it's always off by one,
because the first argument is going to
be equal to this.
Now why is that helpful,
well sometimes when you are generating functions,
lets say maybe your looping over,
a list of data.
You have access to that data,
at the time of the function creation.
And then maybe later you wanna call it.
And sometimes it's easier,
to go batteries included on this function.
Pass it what the arguments will be at call time.
When you are binding it,
and then you can kinda like,
just go ahead and take "this" function wherever you want.
Knowing that the batteries,
the arguments are pre-installed on it.
And you can go ahead and call it whenever you want.
Lets move on to call and apply here.
Call and apply work exactly the same thing,
as "bind" does
except
that they will,
call the functions for you.
So instead of returning a function,
like if we take a look at what's in 'calc'
you see that it's a function.
If I just duplicate this,
and bring it down here.
And we'll call that "Totoal2"
and change this to .call
and refresh.
Oh got to log it now.
You'll see I got 530.
Now what happened here?
That bind returns a function,
that then needs to be called by itself.
.call will do the same thing as "bind"
but it will additionally run the function for you.
So if you need to,
bind a function and call it later,
Use "bind"
if you need to bind a function,
and call it immediately,
use "call"
and then the third one that we have is "apply"
and lets call that "total3"
and change this to "apply"
and the only difference that we have there is,
lets say function apply,
lets go to the docs. For this.
Well the syntax of this function,
is almost identical to .call
the fundamental difference is that 'call',
accepts an argument list.
While 'apply' accepts a single array,
of arguments.
So we take a look here,
you see that they're passing null.
If you wanna use one of these functions,
and you don't care about what 'this'
is equal too.
You could just pass null,
and then you pass the additional arguments,
as an array.
So in our case it's only one argument.
So we would pass it as an array,
of one item.
So not all that useful now that we have spread.
Cause you could just spread into call.
But it's available for you,
if you need it.
And lets console.log total3,
lets change these values here.
Lets be a big tipper, 60% tipper,
there we go.
Looking good.
So that's the only difference between "call and apply"
is that multiple arguments,
here lets add one more,
describe.
And that will take in a
mealType,
and a drinkType
then just console.log Your meal of (mealType) with,
a drink of (drinkType)
was
(this.calculate)
and lets also pass in a taxRate.
We'll say Taxrate.
Okay.
So now if I wanna run this function,
I could just say, "Bill.describe" I add 'pizza'
with a 'beer' and the taxRate was 0.13.
Says your meal of pizza with a drink of beer,
was 1130.
Right.
Now if I wanted to run that,
with "call and apply"
I could say,
'const mymeal' is equal to
bill.describe.call
and we can pass it,
a total of 342.
Like why do we pass it an object here?
Because that is what 'this' will be equal to.
And its looking for 'this.total'
inside of calculate.
And then the additional arguments are,
mealType, drinkType, and taxRate.
So we pass the first one,
which is pizza.
Second one which is beer,
and the third one which is a 13% taxRate.
Console.log mymeal.
This .calculate is not a function.
Dadadadah.
Oh haha.
What happened?
Well, obviously if you don't pass it,
its going to look for this.calc on the
'this' that you passed in.
And we didn't pass that in so,
lets actually just pass the bill in,
so that it has access to that calculate function.
Here we go,
here meal pizza, drank a beer was 1130.
Good, and now if I were to apply that instead.
We simply pass these arguments as,
one argument and its array.
In an array of values.
Looks exactly the same.
So that is "call, apply and bind,"
when should you use it?
When the 'this' value is different,
from what you had hoped.
Just keep it in your back pocket,
cause you definitely will need it.
Although not that often.
It's helpful to know.